README.md, before:

# CodeJam Solutions using ES6+

This repository features solutions to Google's code jam problems using ES6+.

## CodeJam 2019

Solved enough to pass to next round. My two solutions worked flawlessly on the first attempt, and also passed the hidden test cases.

After the qualification, as practice, I solved problem 3, `Cryptopangrams`, inside the `cypher.js` file. Problem 4 is also solved in `datbae.js`, very tough problem!

## Motivation

The Code Jam competition only supports nodejs `4.8.2` which creates a barrier of entry for someone who's writing modern javascript on a daily basis. We are just very much used to the syntax sugar and new functionality available to us.

## How does it work?

> CodeJam 2019 has enabled nodejs v11.13.0!

That means that transpiling is no longer vital, however, we may want special language features and babel can still provide that. For instance, pipe operators.

We setup babel as transpiler to help us convert our code to our target environment, that is, `4.8.2`.

```json
{
  "presets": [
    [
      "@babel/preset-env",
      {
        "targets": {
          "node": "4.8"
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

We install these dependencies:

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "@babel/cli": "^7.2.3",
    "@babel/core": "^7.2.2",
    "@babel/node": "^7.2.2",
    "@babel/preset-env": "^7.2.3"
  }
}
```

And setup our scripts:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "babel-node",
    "transpile": "babel src -d build",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  }
}
```

Just in case you want to use some new features to help you build test cases, you can use `babel-node` to the start script. Just run `yarn start <filename>`. Alternatively, `npx babel-node <filename>`.

We now have a project that supports babel 7+ and all of the JavaScript candy that comes with it. Furthermore, our project will rewrite our code to make sure that node `4.8.2` can run it!

## Approach

First solve the problem!

Second, write the code, in `src/<problemName>/index.js`.

Third, transpile it, `yarn transpile`. This command will actually transpile all of the files located in `src/`.

Now we have `4.8.2` friendly code, located in a newly created, `build/` folder.

You can switch to node `4.8.2` using `nvm` and give it a go.

This repo features a code runner, which is constantly being improved. The code runner, will take problem name as argument, look for a test file inside `tests` and a solution file inside `build/`.

Test files should be named `problemName.in`. I have left two, but please generate your own.

With the solution placed in build and your test, file you can run your solution:

```bash
node runner <problemName/>
```

And we can see if our solution is working as expected.

## Submission

To submit your solution, just go to Code Jam's website, navigate to the problem and select `Load File`. Then submit `build/<problemName>`, or just copy paste its contents into the Code Jam text editor.

Commit message:

chore: start to update ReadMe to reflect Rust's dominance

README.md, after:

# Competitive Programming

This repository features solutions to Google's competitions and Codeforces using Rust.

## Content

Solutions to Kick Start Problems, Codeforces and CodeJam are all mixed up in the `src/` folder.

## Quick start

In this competitions speed is everything, that's why there's a file, `src/example.src`, which can be used to start solving a problem.

It contains number parsing, and vector parsing for `i32`, `usize`, `u32`, etc. All generics that implement `FromStr`.

It is also possible to simply read the next line, as a `String`, using `nxt`.

## TODO

Move over script to feed `tests` to a Node script or Rust solution, into to a Rust executable.

## Legacy

### CodeJam 2019

Solved enough to pass to next round. My two solutions worked flawlessly on the first attempt, and also passed the hidden test cases.

After the qualification, as practice, I solved problem 3, `Cryptopangrams`, inside the `cypher.js` file. Problem 4 is also solved in `datbae.js`, very tough problem!

### Motivation

The Code Jam competition only supports nodejs `4.8.2` which creates a barrier of entry for someone who's writing modern javascript on a daily basis. We are just very much used to the syntax sugar and new functionality available to us.

### How does it work?

> CodeJam 2019 has enabled nodejs v11.13.0!

That means that transpiling is no longer vital, however, we may want special language features and babel can still provide that. For instance, pipe operators.

We setup babel as transpiler to help us convert our code to our target environment, that is, `4.8.2`.

```json
{
  "presets": [
    [
      "@babel/preset-env",
      {
        "targets": {
          "node": "4.8"
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```

We install these dependencies:

```json
{
  "devDependencies": {
    "@babel/cli": "^7.2.3",
    "@babel/core": "^7.2.2",
    "@babel/node": "^7.2.2",
    "@babel/preset-env": "^7.2.3"
  }
}
```

And setup our scripts:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "start": "babel-node",
    "transpile": "babel src -d build",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  }
}
```

Just in case you want to use some new features to help you build test cases, you can use `babel-node` to the start script. Just run `yarn start <filename>`. Alternatively, `npx babel-node <filename>`.

We now have a project that supports babel 7+ and all of the JavaScript candy that comes with it. Furthermore, our project will rewrite our code to make sure that node `4.8.2` can run it!

### Approach

First solve the problem!

Second, write the code, in `src/<problemName>/index.js`.

Third, transpile it, `yarn transpile`. This command will actually transpile all of the files located in `src/`.

Now we have `4.8.2` friendly code, located in a newly created, `build/` folder.

You can switch to node `4.8.2` using `nvm` and give it a go.

This repo features a code runner, which is constantly being improved. The code runner, will take problem name as argument, look for a test file inside `tests` and a solution file inside `build/`.

Test files should be named `problemName.in`. I have left two, but please generate your own.

With the solution placed in build and your test, file you can run your solution:

```bash
node runner <problemName/>
```

And we can see if our solution is working as expected.

### Submission

To submit your solution, just go to Code Jam's website, navigate to the problem and select `Load File`. Then submit `build/<problemName>`, or just copy paste its contents into the Code Jam text editor.
